rag-db/README.md, before:

# Using RAG with LangChain4j in a Jakarta EE and MicroProfile Application

This example demonstrates LangChain4J in a Jakarta EE / MicroProfile application on Open Liberty. The application is a chatbot built with LangChain4J and uses Jakarta CDI, Jakarta RESTful Web Services, Jakarta WebSocket, MicroProfile Config, MicroProfile Metrics, and MicroProfile OpenAPI features. The application allows to use any model such as Github, Ollama, or Hugging Face.

## Prerequisites:

- [Java 21](https://developer.ibm.com/languages/java/semeru-runtimes/downloads)
-   Any one of the following model providers:
    -   GitHub
        -   Sign up and sign in to https://github.com.
        -   Go to your [Settings/Developer Settings/Personal access tokens](https://github.com/settings/personal-access-tokens).
        -   Generate a new token.
    -   Ollama
        -   Download and install [Ollama](https://ollama.com/download).
            -   see the [README.md](https://github.com/ollama/ollama/blob/main/README.md#ollama).
        -   Pull the following model.
            -   `ollama pull llama3.2`
    -   Mistral AI
        -   Sign up and log in to https://console.mistral.ai/home.
        -   Go to [Your API keys](https://console.mistral.ai/api-keys).
        -   Create a new key.
- You will use Docker to run an instance of MongoDB for a fast installation and setup. Install Docker by following the instructions in the official [Docker documentation](https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation), and start your Docker environment.

## Setting up MongoDB Atlas Locally

This guide uses Docker to run an instance of MongoDB Atlas.

For more information about the `mongodb/mongodb-atlas-local` image, see [mongodb/mongodb-atlas-local](https://hub.docker.com/r/mongodb/mongodb-atlas-local) in Docker Hub.

### Running MongoDB in a Docker container

To run MongoDB in this example application, navigate to the `sample-langchain4j/rag-db` directory:

```
cd sample-langchain4j/rag-db
```

Run the following command to start the MongoDB Atlas:

```
docker compose -f docker-compose.yml up -d
```


## Environment Set Up

Set the `JAVA_HOME` environment variable:

```
export JAVA_HOME=<your Java 21 home path>
```

Set the `GITHUB_API_KEY` environment variable if using Github.

```
unset OLLAMA_BASE_URL
unset MISTRAL_AI_API_KEY
export GITHUB_API_KEY=<your Github API token>
```

Set the `OLLAMA_BASE_URL` environment variable if using Ollama. Use your Ollama URL if not using the default.

```
unset GITHUB_API_KEY
unset MISTRAL_AI_API_KEY
export OLLAMA_BASE_URL=http://localhost:11434
```

Set the `MISTRAL_AI_API_KEY` environment variable if using Mistral AI.

```
unset GITHUB_API_KEY
unset OLLAMA_BASE_URL
export MISTRAL_AI_API_KEY=<your Mistral AI API key>
```

## Start the application

Use the Maven wrapper to start the application by using the [Liberty dev mode](https://openliberty.io/docs/latest/development-mode.html):

```
./mvnw liberty:dev
```

## Try out the application

If you are currently using one of the following model providers: GitHub, Ollama or MistralAI, you may proceed.

- Navigate to http://localhost:9081/openapi/ui/ to see the OpenAPI user interface (UI) that provides API documentation and a client to test the API endpoints for mongoDB.
  - To try a particular api, authentication is required.
  - The admin (read/write full access) and user (read only access) security roles are created. 
  - For admin access, use `bob` and his password is `bobpwd`.
  - For read only access, use `alice` and her password is`alicepwd`.

- Try the GET request at `/api/embedding`. Initially the database is empty.
- Try the POST request at `/api/embedding/init`. This adds the knowledge base embeddings to MongoDB.
- Try the GET request at `/api/embedding` again. The content from the `sample-langchain4j/rag/src/main/resources/knowledge_base` should be displayed.

- Navigate to http://localhost:9081/ to use the chat application

- At the prompt, try the following message examples:

  - ```
      How to test connections with the Server Config tool?
    ```
  - ```
      Which OpenTelemetry property enabled by MicroProfile Telemetry do I need in order to set the exporter that is used to collect traces?
    ```

Use the `sample-langchain4j/rag/src/main/resources/knowledge_base` files to compare the AI responses to the knowledge base files.

- In the `rag-db` directory, running the `./mvnw liberty:dev` again and submitting the GET request gives the embeddings that are stored in MongoDB previously. Similarly, the POST request to `/api/embedding/init` indicates that the knowledge base has already been initialized. 

## Running the tests

Because you started Liberty in dev mode, you can run the provided tests by pressing the `enter/return` key from the command-line session where you started dev mode.

If the tests pass, you see a similar output to the following example:

```
[INFO] -------------------------------------------------------
[INFO]  T E S T S
[INFO] -------------------------------------------------------
[INFO] Running it.io.openliberty.sample.langchan4j.RAGChatServiceIT
[INFO] ...
[INFO] Tests run: 2, Failures: 0, Errors: 0, Skipped: 0, Time elapsed: 4.804 s
[INFO] Results:
[INFO] 
[INFO] Tests run: 2, Failures: 0, Errors: 0, Skipped: 0
```

When you are done checking out the service, exit dev mode by pressing `Ctrl+C` in the command-line session where you ran Liberty, or by typing `q` and then pressing the `enter/return` key.

Then, run the following command to tear down the environment: 

```
docker compose -f docker-compose.yml down
```

Commit message:

updated readme, and tests, changed prompt - more generic: Isolate incoming application requests with virtual hosts
Signed-off-by: Siaa Gor <Siaa.Gor@ibm.com>

rag-db/README.md, after:

# Using RAG with LangChain4j in a Jakarta EE and MicroProfile Application

This example demonstrates LangChain4J in a Jakarta EE / MicroProfile application on Open Liberty. The application is a chatbot built with LangChain4J and uses Jakarta CDI, Jakarta RESTful Web Services, Jakarta WebSocket, MicroProfile Config, MicroProfile Metrics, and MicroProfile OpenAPI features. The application allows to use any model such as Github, Ollama, or Hugging Face.

## Prerequisites:

- [Java 21](https://developer.ibm.com/languages/java/semeru-runtimes/downloads)
-   Any one of the following model providers:
    -   GitHub
        -   Sign up and sign in to https://github.com.
        -   Go to your [Settings/Developer Settings/Personal access tokens](https://github.com/settings/personal-access-tokens).
        -   Generate a new token.
    -   Ollama
        -   Download and install [Ollama](https://ollama.com/download).
            -   see the [README.md](https://github.com/ollama/ollama/blob/main/README.md#ollama).
        -   Pull the following model.
            -   `ollama pull llama3.2`
            -   `ollama pull nomic-embed-text`
    -   Mistral AI
        -   Sign up and log in to https://console.mistral.ai/home.
        -   Go to [Your API keys](https://console.mistral.ai/api-keys).
        -   Create a new key.
- You will use Docker to run an instance of MongoDB for a fast installation and setup. Install Docker by following the instructions in the official [Docker documentation](https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation), and start your Docker environment.

## Setting up MongoDB Atlas Locally

This guide uses Docker to run an instance of MongoDB Atlas.

For more information about the `mongodb/mongodb-atlas-local` image, see [mongodb/mongodb-atlas-local](https://hub.docker.com/r/mongodb/mongodb-atlas-local) in Docker Hub.

### Running MongoDB in a Docker container

To run MongoDB in this example application, navigate to the `sample-langchain4j/rag-db` directory:

```
cd sample-langchain4j/rag-db
```

Run the following command to start the MongoDB Atlas:

```
docker compose -f docker-compose.yml up -d
```


## Environment Set Up

Set the `JAVA_HOME` environment variable:

```
export JAVA_HOME=<your Java 21 home path>
```

Set the `GITHUB_API_KEY` environment variable if using Github.

```
unset OLLAMA_BASE_URL
unset MISTRAL_AI_API_KEY
export GITHUB_API_KEY=<your Github API token>
```

Set the `OLLAMA_BASE_URL` environment variable if using Ollama. Use your Ollama URL if not using the default.

```
unset GITHUB_API_KEY
unset MISTRAL_AI_API_KEY
export OLLAMA_BASE_URL=http://localhost:11434
```

Set the `MISTRAL_AI_API_KEY` environment variable if using Mistral AI.

```
unset GITHUB_API_KEY
unset OLLAMA_BASE_URL
export MISTRAL_AI_API_KEY=<your Mistral AI API key>
```

## Start the application

Use the Maven wrapper to start the application by using the [Liberty dev mode](https://openliberty.io/docs/latest/development-mode.html):

```
./mvnw liberty:dev
```

## Try out the application

If you are currently using one of the following model providers: GitHub, Ollama or MistralAI, you may proceed.

- Navigate to http://localhost:9081/openapi/ui/ to see the OpenAPI user interface (UI) that provides API documentation and a client to test the API endpoints for mongoDB.
  - To try a particular api, authentication is required.
  - The admin (read/write full access) and user (read only access) security roles are created. 
  - For admin access, use `bob` and his password is `bobpwd`.
  - For read only access, use `alice` and her password is`alicepwd`.

- Try the GET request at `/api/embedding`. Initially the database is empty.
- Try the POST request at `/api/embedding/init`. This adds the knowledge base embeddings to MongoDB.
- Try the GET request at `/api/embedding` again. The content from the `sample-langchain4j/rag/src/main/resources/knowledge_base` should be displayed.

- Navigate to http://localhost:9081/ to use the chat application

- At the prompt, try the following message examples:

  - ```
      How do I isolate applications on the same server?
    ```
  - ```
      Which OpenTelemetry property enabled by MicroProfile Telemetry do I need in order to set the exporter that is used to collect traces?
    ```

Use the `sample-langchain4j/rag/src/main/resources/knowledge_base` files to compare the AI responses to the knowledge base files.

- In the `rag-db` directory, running the `./mvnw liberty:dev` again and submitting the GET request gives the embeddings that are stored in MongoDB previously. Similarly, the POST request to `/api/embedding/init` indicates that the knowledge base has already been initialized. 

## Running the tests

Because you started Liberty in dev mode, you can run the provided tests by pressing the `enter/return` key from the command-line session where you started dev mode.

If the tests pass, you see a similar output to the following example:

```
[INFO] -------------------------------------------------------
[INFO]  T E S T S
[INFO] -------------------------------------------------------
[INFO] Running it.io.openliberty.sample.langchan4j.RAGChatServiceIT
[INFO] ...
[INFO] Tests run: 2, Failures: 0, Errors: 0, Skipped: 0, Time elapsed: 4.804 s
[INFO] Results:
[INFO] 
[INFO] Tests run: 2, Failures: 0, Errors: 0, Skipped: 0
```

When you are done checking out the service, exit dev mode by pressing `Ctrl+C` in the command-line session where you ran Liberty, or by typing `q` and then pressing the `enter/return` key.

Then, run the following command to tear down the environment: 

```
docker compose -f docker-compose.yml down
```
